[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
What a great program
we have for you.
Jonathan Zap is an author,
philosopher, journalist,
teacher, who has written
extensively on psychology
and contemporary mythology.
His most recent book is called
"Crossing the Event Horizon."
Jonathan, welcome back
to "Beyond Belief."
>>JONATHAN ZAP: Good to be back.
>>NOORY: You were last with us
about three, four years ago,
weren't you?
>>ZAP: 2017, I believe.
>>NOORY: I had a
great time with you.
And we're going to
have another one today.
What's new with you?
>>ZAP: Well I've been
working on the subject
of interdimensional
communication
and then also working
on a fantasy epic
called, "Parallel Journeys."
I've been working
on for decades,
but I'm finally getting close.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
What are interdimensional
relationships and entities?
What are we talking about here?
>>ZAP: Well, I mean the most
familiar example, of course,
is communicating
with the deceased.
But there are many
other types where
it can also be ambiguous, what
the source of the other entity
is.
So they can be, for example,
alternate personalities,
like in multiple personality
disorder, now called
dissociative identity disorder.
You can have multiple psyches.
The human body, the
human being can support
more than one personality.
And so those are
interdimensional in the sense
of sort of being
intrapsychic relationships.
But the most classic
would be what
appears to be communication
with the deceased.
>>NOORY: How do
we tap into this?
How do we communicate with them?
>>ZAP: Well, I didn't
go looking for that.
For me, it just happened.
And it will spontaneously
happen for a great many people.
They did a scientific poll.
Maybe, it was a
Gallup Poll that found
something like 80%
of all Americans
have had some kind of experience
at some point in their life,
where they felt
very strongly, it
was communication from
a deceased loved one,
usually happening shortly
after they passed.
>>NOORY: Now this communication
with them, though,
when you say it just
kind of happens,
so is it like a phone
call in the head?
How does that come about?
>>ZAP: Well, often, it happens
when people are driving.
It happened because
they're sort of occupied.
You can sort of
drive on autopilot,
but you're sort of
doing something.
So you can sort of let
your mind float free.
For other people, it
could happen in the shower
or that kind of thing.
I mean, obviously, there are
ways of meditating and trying
to invite in such a presence.
But I think for
most people who have
had strong experiences of it,
it's happened spontaneously.
>>NOORY: So it's not something
where you have to meditate on
or anything like that?
>>ZAP: I mean, people
recommend meditation.
I personally don't do that.
It's just hasn't been necessary.
But it can happen in many
different circumstances,
often in something that may seem
like a dream or while asleep.
For example, there's the
so-called "Peak in Darien"
experiences where--
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>ZAP: Well, that's
where someone is deceased
but they're not known to be
deceased by the person who
experiences--
>>NOORY: At that time.
>>ZAP: --a spectral
presence, right?
So for example, a young college
student dies in a car accident.
And now his 12-year-old brother
comes down to breakfast,
and says, I just saw Sammy.
And they're like, what
are you talking about?
He's at school.
I know he was just
standing in my bedroom.
And he said everything's
going to be OK.
And then they get
the phone call.
So there are quite a number
of those experiences that
seem impressively evidential in
that the precipient, the person
having the experience, did not
know that the person passed.
And they weren't
somebody who was expected
to pass like somebody on
their deathbed or something
like that.
>>NOORY: Jonathan, how do we
know that that individual is
not hallucinating or something
just happening to them?
>>ZAP: So that's the thing.
If we really want to
approach the paranormal
with intellectual rigor,
which I try and do,
we really can never
completely eliminate ambiguity
about almost anything.
So there's an idea of
competitive plausibility, where
after a certain point,
you have so much evidence
that the survival hypothesis
seems like the one that
would be the most likely.
But there are these
other explanations,
like supersized
explanations, are called,
where somebody is tapping
into the Akashic record
or some universal
field of knowledge,
where they could know
things in other ways.
And so you really,
at a certain point,
have to approach things--
or I try to approach things
from what's called the
phenomenological point of view
where you just sort of
relate to the experience
on its own terms, and maybe more
with your heart than your head.
Because I can endlessly,
using my head,
come up with counter
explanations.
So for example, I have a
relationship with somebody
who I knew in life but
who is now deceased.
And if he were to tell
me, well, since you're
doubting whether it's really
me or not, pull out a coin.
Flip it 12 times.
I predict it will end on
tails, 12 times in a row.
And let's say I carry out the
experiment, and that happens.
Now, did that prove that
my deceased friend exists?
Well, no.
Because this is the dirty little
secret of paranormal research.
You can't eliminate all kinds
of other paranormal vectors.
Maybe, telekinetically,
I did it.
>>NOORY: And probability.
Even though, it's enormous.
>>ZAP: It's extremely low.
But that would be
a tiny possibility.
But really, one of
the more likely ones
would be short-term
clairvoyance about when
to conduct an experiment.
It's called decision
augmentation theory.
Because we have the strongest
evidence in paranormal research
for short-term clairvoyance.
Quite a number of people
and triple-blind studies
will be able to show
physiological stress responses
before a computer generates
an upsetting image,
that even the computer
didn't know was coming.
They're just being chosen
by randomizing algorithms
in microseconds.
>>NOORY: Sounds like
Dr. Dean Radin's work.
>>ZAP: Dean Radin, exactly.
>>NOORY: That kind of stuff.
On the Gaia program, "Cosmic
Disclosure," Emery Smith
talked about
interdimensional beings.
Emery, when we talk about
interdimensional beings,
what are we talking about.?
>>EMERY SMITH: We're talking
about a race of beings
a hundreds of millions
of years ahead of us,
that have already
been able to master
how to change their form.
They are allowed to switch
their atoms and photons around
to take almost any form
they want and travel
through time and space.
It can go from a light
body to a 3-D body.
It can change its
frequency at will
to go to another dimension.
It can phase in,
phase out, lead in,
Lead out of multiple dimensions.
That makes it an
interdimensional being.
>>NOORY: At any time?
>>SMITH: At any time
by its own will.
>>NOORY: Are they physical, or
are they somewhat ghostlike?
>>SMITH: Yeah, that's
a great question.
I get that a lot.
Because a lot of these
sightings and things people
are referring to them
as ghosts or people
report ghosts being
seen when they're really
these interdimensional beings.
The interesting
science behind this
is that when an interdimensional
being enters our dimension,
he falls under the laws of
our three-dimensional reality.
So he has to take
some sort of form.
But don't forget
light is form, too.
So that can be visualized
by our five senses
here on planet Earth, or
through our solar system,
in this universe,
in this dimension.
So as they come through, they
might change from a light being
into a form of their choice.
Or they also could
stay in the light form.
So many accounts of you have
heard around in history books
and around the planet of these
ghost like sightings-- now,
some are ghost, which means if
you are to pass away right now,
your photons will still be in
that chair for 30 days or more.
And so this is what
I'm getting at.
The photons of the genetic make
up of the DNA is always there.
Even when we leave
our seats right now
and come back tomorrow morning,
we're still going to have--
our resident energy is
still going to be here.
>>NOORY: You agree
with that, Jonathan?
Your energy is still
going to be there.
You get up and leave.
Are you going to be there
for another couple of days?
>>ZAP: Well, I don't know about
the residual photon theory.
But we do know that information
cannot be destroyed.
That's what the so-called
black hole wars were about,
between the physicist Leonard
Susskind and Stephen Hawking,
and Leonard Susskind won.
Because Stephen Hawking--
he was very upset.
He went to a lecture
that Stephen Hawking
gave about 25 years ago,
where Stephen Hawking said,
in a black hole, even
information is destroyed.
And that sort of hit Leonard
Susskind like a thunderbolt.
And he set out to prove--
he bet a bottle of wine.
He eventually collected that.
>>NOORY: Not a bad bet.
>>ZAP: So the universe's
information is conserved.
So whether it's residual
photons or not, I don't know.
But definitely, we
see many evidences
that there's a complete
record of our lives,
even more than
what we could have
perceived through our senses.
So when people have a near-death
experience and they have a life
review, they may
see what things--
they may telepathically
sense what
other people were feeling while
they were talking to them.
They may have been
blind since birth.
This is discussed in a
book called "Mindsight,"
congenitally blind
since birth and have
a highly visual experience
in your life review
and be able to comprehend that.
So this really suggests that
the system itself, the universe,
the cosmos, is sort of storing
a complete record of everything
that in the right state, the
individual entity or living
person even
sometimes can access.
>>NOORY: Is this supernatural,
or is there a science behind
it?
>>ZAP: Well, I think the word
supernatural just means nature
that we don't understand or that
science hasn't comprehended.
Because nothing can really
be outside of nature.
We happen to live in a time
when a whole vast cryptozoology
of life forms has
become visible,
and we're understanding
about them.
But in the
Renaissance, they would
have no idea what
you're talking about
if you said virus, or bacteria,
or anything like that.
So I think science may
eventually catch up
with these more
energetic forms of life
that are present
instruments don't locate.
>>NOORY: Jonathan,
what is a tulpa?
>>ZAP: Well, a tulpa is--
I think it literally means
mind-made entity, or something
like that.
And there are different
versions in different mystical
traditions, like the
Jewish tradition,
you talk about dybbuks.
And basically, it's where you
set out to create an entity,
not to summon one
from the other side.
>>NOORY: The
individual creates it?
>>ZAP: Exactly, or sometimes
a group of individuals.
For example, there was a group
of British spiritualists,
very educated people,
and they decided
to create an entity, a human
being with a whole history.
They made up the name,
almost like a fiction
writer, the whole history.
>>NOORY: The create or conjure.
Two different things, right?
>>ZAP: Not conjure, create.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>ZAP: So in other
words, completely out
of their own
collective imagination.
They gave him a name.
They gave him a history.
But then they found that once
they had put enough energy
into him, that he
started to have
his own personality
and preferences,
and as if he had an
independent autonomous life.
And this is something that
fiction writers, for example,
experience.
I'm a fiction writer myself.
After a certain
point, characters
take on a life of
their own and may
do things that are inconvenient
to the plot of the story.
But there's a whole movement
of people right now.
There's a lot about it online,
where people are creating
these entities, and
investing them with life,
and using them for
different purposes,
and that kind of thing.
And after a certain point,
they seem to become autonomous.
And you can look at
it from the point
of view of multiple personality
disorder kind of situation.
But there seems like there may
be something even more to it
than that.
>>NOORY: Why would
somebody want to create
an interdimensional being?
>>ZAP: Well, it could
be for many reasons.
I mean, first of all, we
are a creative species.
If there's anything
that we can do,
somebody is going
to try and do it.
And it could be for good
reasons or bad reasons.
Some people may want to create
such a being as a companion,
a companion that is more
designed perfectly for them,
which many ordinary
relationships aren't.
>>NOORY: Somebody actually
would have a relationship
with an interdimensional being?
>>ZAP: Yeah.
Well, I mean people
do all the time.
And of course, there
could be many categories.
But the tulpa idea--
and I don't think
that's what I'm doing,
but I mean I have to
consider that possibility--
is a being that you create.
And I guess the
closest analogy would
be like what a fiction
writer would do,
where, maybe, let's say
the fiction writer likes
their character so much.
They sort of keep them around
and start having conversations
with them.
And they may have very
novel perspectives,
and this type of thing.
But it may also be
possible that they're
able to give them
autonomous life.
Because when we
think about who we,
we are not really so
physical as we think.
We know from mainstream
physics that if we
were to take all the empty
space out of all the atoms,
all seven billion
people on this Earth
would fit into one sugar cube.
How do we create
life biologically?
It's a pretty
mysterious process.
And maybe we don't actually
need a carbon-based chemistry
in order to create a new psyche.
>>NOORY: Jonathan, is
there anything weird
about creating an
interdimensional being?
>>ZAP: Well, it's
extremely weird.
>>NOORY: I knew it.
>>ZAP: And that may be
part of the attraction,
is that people may be bored
with conventional relationships.
>>NOORY: But you
don't see them, right?
>>ZAP: Well, yes, and no.
So for example, when we're
talking about-- let's say
we're talking about after
death relationships,
now sometimes people
just sense a presence.
Other times people
have a full on ocular
experience, where it
seems like they're
seeing this deceased person
as vividly as I'm seeing you.
In other cases, it's sort
of like you're seeing them
with your mind's eye.
And in the relationship
that I have, for example,
that seems like an after
death relationship, at first,
the visualization
was very unstable.
It was sort of like looking
at a Picasso cubist painting.
I tried to stare too fixedly.
It would sort of split
into multiple perspectives.
And it would seem take
a lot of cognitive load
for me to consistently
visualize him.
But since then,
there's been some kind
of learning, or
symbiosis, or something,
where now the
visualization is very easy.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>ZAP: But it's not
full on ocular vision.
I'm not seeing him with
the meat camera eyes,
but sort of with my mind's eye.
And therefore, it
would be easier
to see him in a situation
where the lighting is muted
and where it's not competing,
like I'm in busy traffic,
and I have to keep my focus
on what my meat camera
eyes are seeing.
>>NOORY: If somebody is having
problems with relationships,
in human relationships,
do they then
create these interdimensional
relationships to offset that?
>>ZAP: Well, a classic
example would be the child
who has an imaginary friend.
>>NOORY: Sure.
And most do.
>>ZAP: And many
parents will think
that they should discourage
that, which I'm not
so sure that they should.
>>NOORY: I agree.
>>ZAP: I mean, I
think it depends on--
>>NOORY: Let it happen.
>>ZAP: I mean, yeah.
I mean, I think it's just like
having a regular friendship.
I mean, some friends
are trouble and may
get the kid into trouble,
and others are quite healthy.
But imaginary friends are real.
And let me explain, because
this is what they always say,
they're not real.
But it's really sort of
a cultural prejudice.
Because let's say I ask you
to think of a pink elephant,
and you do.
Well, it's a factual
actuality that you
had that image pop into your
mind at that particular moment.
The history of the
unfolding of the universe
has to include the fact that
you thought of a pink elephant
and not a blue Toyota 4Runner
at that particular moment.
Or it would be inaccurate.
So imaginary
objects-- this is what
Jung called his great discovery,
that the psyche was real.
Imaginary objects are real.
They are factual.
They don't have the
physical substrate
that an object that we see
with our ocular vision does.
But it doesn't mean
that they're not real.
Anything that exists is real.
That exists in
imagination, it's real,
and that can be a very
powerful place for things
to exist as it turns out.
>>NOORY: Now, you've
had relationships
with these dimensional
beings that you've created.
>>ZAP: Well, I don't know
if I've created them.
I mean, I can in the
sense that they...
Hmm?
>>NOORY: But they've
been around you, right?
>>ZAP: Yeah, where it's still
ambiguous what the source is.
So for example, the
one that appears
to have continuity,
which he insists on
with my deceased friend, if
I start to be intellectually
rigorous, I can't
remove all the ambiguity
because if you know
somebody really well,
you sort of have a
holographic memory of them.
If I asked you
like, imagine what
your mom would say in regard
to a certain question,
you could probably hear
her voice, her laugh.
You could visualize
the whole thing
because you have this complex
holographic memory of her.
So if you know somebody
well enough, you have that.
Now, maybe I created an
imaginary friend, like a tulpa,
based on my holographic memory.
There's a lot of evidence
that seems to point more
toward the continuity
hypothesis,
but I can't absolutely prove
that because you never really
can.
You can always come up with
a super-sci explanation
or something like that.
On the other hand,
there are beings,
like in my fiction writing or in
certain imaginative exercises,
where I absolutely am
creating another entity,
or at least I think I am.
>>NOORY: On your own?
>>ZAP: Right.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ZAP: So that's what
a fiction writer does.
But even then, you
never really know
because maybe this
vivid character
is somebody who lives somewhere
else that I haven't met,
who will live somewhere else.
We don't really
know what the source
is of these different entities
that come into being even,
if we think we've
just imagined them.
>>NOORY: Well,
Jonathan, earlier you
said they could be good
things or bad things.
>>ZAP: Sure.
>>NOORY: If they're
bad, what are they?
Have we created demons, or what?
>>ZAP: Well, there could
be many possibilities.
One could be that
we've split off
what Jung would call the
shadow, like a darker
part of our own
personality, and now we
have like, a
doppelganger or a double.
There have been a lot
of stories about that.
But another
possibility is that you
have a parasitic entity that
is manipulating us or having
negative effects.
I have a huge number
of writings about that.
We did a show on
this possibility.
And so many of these
interdimensional relationships
are negative or dangerous.
They need to be judged with
a lot of the same discernment
that you would use to judge a
fully physical relationship.
So if we say, are
relationships good or bad?
We would have to say yes.
Just like regular, full,
meat-bodied relationships
can be wonderful or terrible,
so can interdimensional
relationships, so you would
judge them in similar ways.
If the entity or
the physical person
is doing things
without your consent
and compromising your
free will, or trying
to put you in a state
of negative emotion
and feed off of that,
which a drama queen could
do in regular
life, you would not
want to further
that relationship.
You would want to
put up boundaries.
So you really can judge
them with the same kind
of skills of discernment
you would use
to judge other relationships.
>>NOORY: Some people who are
psychotic, dual personalities--
might this be the cause?
>>ZAP: So this is
a complex question.
People with MPD, multiple
personality disorder,
or dissociative
identity disorder,
I don't know if they're
classified as psychotic.
I think a lot depends on whether
they have different alters
but they maybe have one
consistent central personality
that's aware of when the
different alters take over.
We assume that they have
split off their own psyche
into multiple personalities,
but maybe these
are other souls
waiting to incarnate
and that are happening
to share a body.
There is a wonderful movie made
a couple of years ago called
"Jonathan," strangely enough,
that's about a young man--
>>NOORY: Probably
after you, right?
>>ZAP: Well, there were a lot
of synchronistic connections
to my case.
But there's one body
but two psyches,
and they each split
a 12-hour shift.
And so it's sort of a dramatic
case of multiple personality.
>>NOORY: Very.
In your situation with your
friend who was deceased,
what did you create with
him as an interdimensional
relationship?
>>ZAP: Well, within 30 minutes
of meeting him in real life--
>>NOORY: In the real life.
>>ZAP: --in the
real life, we found
that we were obsessed
with the same story, which
I call "Parallel Journeys."
That's my version of it, which I
began writing in the early '80s
to give you an idea.
He described a story
that was haunting him.
It was the same
story, it was just
sort of a simpler version of it.
And so I have a number of
emails from him where he said,
I really want to help you
with "Parallel Journeys"
because maybe that'll
help me write my story.
So that's something that we seem
to be collaborating on right
now, which is great because--
>>NOORY: Is he helpful?
>>ZAP: It's extremely helpful.
And so it can feel
like I'm writing now
with a four-hemisphere brain.
Of course, somebody else
might read it and think
it was half of one hemisphere.
That's for others to judge.
But he has a different type
of language skills than I do,
so it helps to balance out
some of my deficiencies
as a fiction writer.
So that's an example
of something,
but there are many other things
that we work on, as well.
>>NOORY: How do you
communicate with him?
Telepathy?
>>ZAP: Well, it's
telepathic communication.
Conventionally, we think
of telepathy as just words,
but it could also be
visual, and that's
a lot of what my work on the
singularity archetype is about.
Is that there's evidence
of our moving toward a more
visual telepathy.
Now, in his case,
the visual telepathy
might just be a subtle
change in his appearance,
just like you could
change your body language
to communicate something
to me visually in addition
to your words.
But he keeps his physical
presentation pretty consistent.
We were just listening
to Emery talk
about how the interdimensional
beings can appear,
can be shapeshifters.
They can appear in a whole
variety of different ways.
But usually when we're talking
about the human deceased,
they usually don't
appear to somebody
as a glowing octopi or something
like that, they usually
look like a 25-year-old,
extremely healthy and radiant
version of themselves, even
if they died aged and sick.
>>NOORY: Right.
They always come
back, don't they?
>>ZAP: They come back.
They want to look familiar to
you so you can recognize them,
but they'll usually be
in a sort of ideal state
because now they are in an
ideoplastic, thought-responsive
body, much like
the avatar that you
might have in virtual reality.
Most of us would
idealize our appearance
if we were going
to create an avatar
to play a video game like
"World of Warcraft," right?
>>NOORY: I got to tell you, on
the "Spirit Talk" Gaia show,
medium James Van Praagh had
his thoughts on telepathy.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
And the spirit world
know that they are in charge
of sending the signal to me,
transmitting the signal,
transmitting the code.
And what happens is they have to
send that thought in such a way
that I the medium am able to
receive it in a certain way.
So I like to think of it
sometimes like a radio
bandwidth, and we have
over here and over here,
this limit to this limit.
And they have to come somewhere
in between that bandwidth
in order for me to receive it
because my bandwidth is just
this way, and they
have to come in that.
If they send the
thought too quickly,
it'll go beyond my bandwidth.
If it's too slow, I won't
be able to pick it up.
So they really have to project
that signal in a certain way
that I receive it.
Now, very interestingly, I find
that the best signals I receive
from the spirit world are the
ones that are coming not only
from them-- identification,
who they are--
but if that signal
is sent with love.
When there's a
signal with emotion,
it comes through stronger.
>>NOORY: Well, that's
an interesting take.
>>ZAP: What I find
is that when having
telepathic communication,
something that
makes it a little bit more
complex is that what's sent out
can sometimes be the
sort of linguistic intent
before it's actually
turned into words.
Like when I'm creating these
words that I'm speaking,
I sort of have an
idea before I've
turned them into
a sentence of what
I want to communicate to you.
So when you're in a state
of telepathic melding
with another entity,
you can actually
use each other's capacity
to turn things into words.
So because I'm pretty good
at turning things into words,
if it's a complex
subject, then my friend,
there's really two beings
that I'm in touch with,
can tap into my
vocabulary and my ability
to use precision to describe
some fairly complex things.
Other times, it's
completely their voice
and it's very characteristic of
them and their personalities.
And they'll even
say, like, if you
think that sounds like you,
we were melding and sharing
linguistic functions,
and that kind of thing.
So that's a little
bit of a twist
on how telepathic
communication can
be sort of like when jazz
musicians synchronize and stuff
like that.
Where you kind of share
abilities and come up
with one stream of
language that can
reflect a kind of melded
point of view sometimes.
>>NOORY: Are we doing this,
Jonathan, because we're lonely?
Tapping into these beings?
Why are we doing this anyway?
>>ZAP: Well, this is something
I've sometimes pointed out
because it would sound like
to somebody else who might be
listening, because I'm kind
of an eccentric guy, well,
this is an older,
lonely guy so he's
making up an imaginary friend.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>ZAP: But the thing is that
the whole time when this was
happening, I was surrounded by
vibrant relationships of all
kinds with young people,
with all kinds of--
>>NOORY: Human types?
>>ZAP: Human relationships.
So in other words, it wasn't
for lack of other relationships.
But I found that this
relationship provides
a type of continuous energy.
So for example, I
didn't do something
that I promised to do for
my friend, the deceased one,
maybe showing up for a
writing session or whatever--
>>NOORY: And does
he angry with you?
>>ZAP: Well, sure.
He has all the emotions.
He's not often angry.
He was more often angry in
real life, in ordinary life.
But he just withdrew his
presence for like, four hours,
and it was a tremendous
drop in my energy level.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>ZAP: And during
that four hours,
a young, vibrant,
high-energy person
came over that I'm friends
with, and that relationship
was no substitute for
the loss of his presence,
and even a certain
sensory vitality
because I've given him
permission to experience
my life through my senses.
And so it can feel like my
senses have a double detention.
And so there's sort of a
continuous level of energy
that I get from
that relationship.
>>NOORY: Are you walking
around the house talking
to this entity out loud?
>>ZAP: Not out loud.
And there may be communication
when I'm doing things,
but really, the
highest-quality communication
happens when I am in my study
with the computer turned on
and I can write it down.
Because being able to write it
down makes it more definite.
And we can kind of meld
because we're both writers,
and I get a higher-quality
communication.
There are other
cases, though, where
I'm not thinking about either
of my two companions at all.
I've had this happen a lot with
situations of exotic travel.
And suddenly, they will step
forward very dramatically.
>>NOORY: What's
exotic travel, per se?
>>ZAP: For example,
I was traveling
with a friend in Paris.
We split up because the
friend had to see a relative.
And I'm waiting in line
to go into the catacombs.
And the night before
was the anniversary
of this deceased
friend's passing,
and I remember saying to my
friend, the one who split off,
you know, I was going
to light a candle,
but I haven't heard
from him in months.
I think he must have
moved on, and so forth.
>>NOORY: And you
really felt that?
>>ZAP: Yeah.
The line felt dead.
And I'm just waiting
in line, looking
at my phone or
something, and suddenly,
just as clear as a bell.
And it was also, when he appears
or when the other one appears,
even if I can't visually see
them very vividly at first,
it's always spatial.
Like he's over there, he's not
over there, that kind of thing.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ZAP: And so he showed up
at a significant distance,
like 25 feet, but the telepathic
voice was so decisive,
and it was like, this is
the closest you're ever
going to get to see what it's
like in the lower astral.
And I'm like, wow.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>ZAP: I'm just kind of
like in tourist mode.
>>NOORY: Almost like
putting you down.
Was he?
>>ZAP: Well, no,
he was just being
very dramatic and very dark
because he had spent time
in the lower astral.
I had dreams of him
in the lower astral
the day that he died
and 12 days before,
not knowing that he was
suicidal or anything like that.
I had no contact with him the
last eight months of his life,
but I had these
premonitory dreams.
But anyway, and then I'm
going down into the catacombs.
I don't know if
you've ever been.
>>NOORY: No.
>>ZAP: But nothing prepared
me for how intense that was.
Beneath Paris is this labyrinth
with 6 million skeletons,
and it is the most
intense thing imaginable.
>>NOORY: You could
feel it, right?
>>ZAP: You feel it, absolutely.
I'm sure he was right.
And I had never been there.
I had just read a few
things in, you know,
touristy Tripadvisor
or whatever.
I wasn't expecting to have
such a dramatic experience,
but he knew what was coming.
And that's something else that's
characterized this relationship
even from the first day of it.
When you're on the
other side, you
have access to an additional
dimension of time.
They know things that are
coming that you don't know,
and can sort of play little
tricks and anticipate things,
much like people with
access to a higher dimension
if you've ever read
the novella "Flatland."
If you're a
three-dimensional person,
you can play tricks on
two-dimensional beings
and that kind of thing.
>>NOORY: Do they enjoy
these little tricks?
>>ZAP: He definitely took
a great deal of pleasure
in the one that happened
within the first hour or two
of the after-death
relationship beginning.
And it was a very complex thing,
and he laughed quite a bit
at what he did.
>>NOORY: On Gaia's
"Buzzsaw" show,
the astral traveler
and author Jason Quitt
talked about his
experiences with
these interdimensional beings
and whether they're here
to help us.
>>JASON QUITT: The
most amazing thing
that I find about my experiences
is that I can sense and feel
that something is
in the room with me,
but I can't see them
with my physical eyes.
But I have the ability
to leave my body,
so once I look out of my
body, suddenly those beings
are standing in this room and
I could see them clear as day.
So from my understanding,
those beings,
like I've seen what
people refer to as
the greys or the
reptilians or insectoids
or a whole list of
characters, I only
saw them once I left my body.
So for me, they were never
a physical being for me,
they were a dimensional being.
>>SEAN STONE: And of those
beings you talk about,
the reptoids and the
mantids and the greys,
did you find that
they are nefarious,
as many people claim?
>>QUITT: I've had
both experiences.
I've had experiences
which are terrible
and I've had experiences
which are very positive.
So I really have come
to the conclusion
that you have to
treat every alien,
or I wouldn't say alien,
every being the same
as you would treat a human.
You have to treat
them with respect
and honor right off the bat.
You don't show fear,
you just stay very calm,
because there's some that
are very beneficial to you,
which are great teachers.
And there's some that, like you
say, want to take your energy
and use you and
manipulate you, which
happens a lot in the
lower astral realms.
And I feel right now
in this industry,
right now in this
time, many people
are being taken by
these manipulations.
>>NOORY: That's precisely what
you've been talking about,
entities that are doing
things that are beneficial
and some that are pretty dark.
>>ZAP: Right.
The two main ones that I
have a relationship with
are pretty consistently
benign, but I've had encounters
with dark entities.
I don't develop
relationships with them
because I want to
put up boundaries.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ZAP: And in recent
years, I think
they've, if anything, stayed
away from me because they
know I'll write about it.
But I have had encounters
with parasitic beings,
and that's been a
subject that I've
done a lot of writing and
talking about, as well.
>>NOORY: And these are the
type that attach to you, right?
Or try to.
>>ZAP: Yeah.
There are many different types.
Some are maybe very
primitive, others
may be more sophisticated
and manipulative
and that kind of thing.
It's a whole vast
subject in itself.
I've kind of branched
off into talking
about symbiotic
interdimensional relationships
because they're much
healthier and more positive,
and the literature in
them is a little bit
scarcer, if anything.
>>NOORY: Sure.
It's pretty dramatic I mean, the
next time I see somebody like,
mumbling to themselves, maybe
they're not nuts, right?
>>ZAP: Exactly.
There was a book by Julian
Jaynes in the '70s called
"The Origins of Consciousness in
the Breakdown of the Bicameral
Mind," and what it was
about is that for most
of human evolution,
he believed, we all
heard voices in our heads.
And then the Greeks,
the ancient Greeks,
they went through a period
where so many of them
would talk about why have
the gods grown silent?
Well, according
to Julian Jaynes,
this is because of the
breakdown of bicamerality,
where you would hear
these voices in your head.
And of course, people
who are classified
as mentally ill in our society
hear voices in their head,
but also some of the most
high-functioning people
had daemons or had
voices or beings
that worked alongside of them.
Socrates is a famous example.
He had his daemon
who would usually
just tell him no if he was
going to do something foolish.
Napoleon had a sphere
of shining light,
or sometimes it would appear
as a dwarf in red clothing.
>>NOORY: How about Plato?
>>ZAP: I haven't heard
about Plato having a daemon.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ZAP: But many
people have had these.
If somebody is dysfunctional
and they're hearing voices,
then we may call them
psychotic or schizophrenic.
>>NOORY: Schizophrenic,
that's right.
>>ZAP: But it doesn't mean
that they're not necessarily
in contact with real entities,
but that their relationship
with them and with
their own psyche
has made it hard for
them to function.
But it's assumed by
materialist psychiatry
that oh, well, this is purely
an internal experience.
But we really don't know that.
>>NOORY: And nowadays
with technology, you
don't know what's going on.
I saw somebody walking down
the street a few weeks ago,
arms are flailing and
talking to themselves saying,
what do you mean?
What are you doing?
I thought the person was insane.
He had a cell phone
with a little earpiece.
>>ZAP: Exactly.
But speaking of
technology, they've
done functional MRIs of people
with multiple personality
disorder, and they find that
the imaging of their brains
looks dramatically different
when different personalities
take over.
Some of those
different personalities
have different blood
pressures and allergies
and there are lots of
physiological changes
that happen.
So one thing that I would
disagree a little bit
with the clip that
we just saw is
he talked about
are they physical
or are they dimensional?
Now, my companions-- I was just
going through some of my 5,000
pages of notes--
one of the most
consistent themes
is that he insists that
he is still physical.
That an astral body is
still a physical body
even if it's not carbon-based.
>>NOORY: Right, and
we don't see it.
>>ZAP: Right.
And that's why, for example,
I can always locate spatially
where they are, and sometimes
I can image him better
than others.
But they're in a
kind of liminal zone
where there are
physical aspects,
but they're not physical in a
conventional meat-bodied way.
But sometimes they show up.
We saw in that first clip
where there's a picture.
I don't know the
veracity of that picture,
but you post them on your
website all the time.
There are many pictures
taken and sometimes there
are physical traces
of these beings.
So they seem to be
in a boundary place
where they are not bound
by the conventional physics
of solid objects and
Newtonian physics,
but they definitely
have physical effects.
>>NOORY: Would there
ever be a time, Jonathan,
that you would not
recommend that somebody tap
into this other dimension?
>>ZAP: Absolutely.
It's the same thing like
with regular relationships.
You have to evaluate on
a case by case basis,
like a child's imaginary friend
or a regular relationship.
If your relationship
is starting to make
you unable to function
in your job or you
neglect your other
relationships,
or you just become
so obsessed with it
that it seems to be
overall having a bad effect
on your viability--
>>NOORY: It's hurting
your life, basically.
>>ZAP: If it's
hurting your life,
the same discernment would apply
to these other relationships.
If they're inspiring
you, if they're
helping you to write novels
or create philosophies
like Socrates, that's great.
On the other hand,
some people may
be helped to do dark things.
Like was Napoleon a
good guy or a bad guy?
Well, I guess that
depends on whether you're
on the other side
of the battlefield.
>>NOORY: That's right.
Exactly.
>>ZAP: And so Hitler
was hearing voices.
Hitler and Churchill
both heard voices
that told them not to get out
of a certain side of the car
that they would have
gotten out of normally,
and thereby avoided a landmine.
And both of them were allowed
to continue their careers
because of voices they
heard in their heads.
So it's not that all
of these entities
always have a good
agenda at all.
>>NOORY: Jonathan, thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>ZAP: Thank you.
>>NOORY: If you want to learn
more about what Jonathan does,
what's your website?
>>ZAP: Zap, Z-A-P,
oracle, O-R-A-C-L-E, .com
>>NOORY: And maybe
you one day can
tap into these
interdimensional beings.
I'm Georgia Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."